ALOKESH MISRA
Mechanical Erection and Commissioning Engineer


Summary
======
A seasoned Mechanical Engineer with over 22 years of hands-on expertise in the installation, commissioning, and maintenance of equipment in the Cement and Steel Processing industries. Alokesh has successfully led and executed projects across India and Southeast Asia, gaining in-depth knowledge of working in multicultural and remote environments. His extensive project portfolio includes Inspection,Erection, Commissioning, and Troubleshooting of Electrostatic Precipitators (ESP), Environmental Projects, Dust Handling Systems, Fabrication, and other mechanical systems.Have strong project management capabilities, excellent communication, and proven leadership in handling complex technical assignments. With a robust understanding of air pollution control systems, his expertise spans ESPs, Bag Filters, Hybrid Filters, Effluent Treatment Plants (ETP), and other environmental technologies.


Experience
======
Project Engineer
M/S Impetus
2025 - Ongoing
India
 - De- Dusting systems equipment’s(ESP, ETP, B.H.)  projects erection, commissioning, troubleshooting’s

Technical Expert
M/S Third Angle
2025 - 2025
Malaysia
 - 700MW power plant ESP shutdown overhauling completed, prepare all necessary documentation, and attend clients meeting and hand over ESP.

Consultant engineer
M/S Unicon Services
2024 - 2024
Jordan
 - As a consultant engineer Bag House revamping job supervision in Jordan
 - Inspection of all the pneumatic valves and commissioning
 - Commissioning of BH

Site in charge at Tata Steel
M/S SN Singh
2024 - 2024
India
 - ESP AMC job to look after and manage maintenance of 8 nos ESP.

ESP and B.H. job supervision
M/S Plant Supervision
2023 - 2023
Turkey
 - ESP and BH installation supervision
 - Installation of BH Fan and alignment
 - Supervision of Bags installation

Senior Engineer Field
M/S Elex(I)Pvt. Ltd.
2021 - 2023
India
 - Supervision, inspection, consultation of Erection, troubleshooting, and commissioning, Supervise and Guide from the Foundation to Commissioning of different E.S.P., Hi-brid Filter, Bag Filter and trouble shootings of the above types of equipment in different applications in different Plants

Engineer at Tata Steel
Thermax Ltd. (Enviro division)
2017 - 2019
India
 - Maintenance of Dust Extraction system, Maintenance of Bag Filtersnager for ESP project

Manager Maintenance
Vaaman Engineers Ltd
2014 - 2017
India
 - Installation of 120 Bag filters, 4nos ESP ducting and conveying systems, and maintenance of DFDS systems.

Engineer/Manager/Consultant
FLSmdth, HimEnviro, Thermodyne, GEA Process
2009 - 2014
India
 - ESP, Bag Filter, RABH  installation and commissioning
 - In Tata Steel completed retrofitting of ESP and new Bag Filters erection and commissioning.
 - Birla Copper, ESP, and Bag Filter erection and commissioning and inspection jobs.

Manager for ESP project
Thermodyne Ltd. And HimEnviro
2010 - 2011
Indonesia
 - Ollams International site-completed Thermodynes Boiler ESP in Jogjakarta , Indonesia
 - In Malaysia at the Transterbo site ESP erection job

Engineer Field Services
E.T.S. Elex
2003 - 2008
India
 - Supervision, inspection, and consultation Erection, commissioning, and troubleshooting
 - All over India in different states Supervise and Guide from the Foundation to Commissioning of different E.S.P., Hybrid Filter, Bag Filter, and trouble shootings of the above equipment in different applications.

Supervisor for Fabrication and Assembling
Eastern Udyog
2001 - 2003
India
 - Assembling of Railway track fittings items. Inspection with proper gauges, looking after productions, and man management in the workshop.


Education
======
Diploma in Mechanical Engineering
1998 - 2001


Skills
======
 - AutoCAD
 - Microsoft Suite


Languages
======
Bengali

English

Hindi

