LASSE


Summary
======
Danish citizen living in Denmark Experienced electrical supervisor and project manager with an electromechanical background. Throughout my career I have balanced on-site activities with project manager assignments of various characters. I am used to an international working environment, managing timelines, budgets, and multiple stakeholders. My adaptability and problem-solving skills allow me to navigate complex challenges and changing project dynamics with ease, ensuring success. Furthermore, I am dedicated to maintaining the highest standards of quality in every project I oversee, emphasizing both efficiency and effectiveness. These qualities, combined with my proven track record in delivering successful projects, make me a strong and reliable leader in both supervisory and project management roles.


Experience
======
Electrical Site Lead and Project Manager
PLANT SUPERVISION for Cummins
2022 - Ongoing
Aalborg
 - Electrical Site Lead - Backup Power System for datacenter in Copenhagen and Holland for Cummins
 - Project Management and site lead
 - Overall planning activities and follow up in cooperation with GC and Client
 - Internal planning of installation, test and commissioning activities
 - Supervised installation and quality control of backup power systems, including generators, UPS, MV/LV switchgear, and grounding systems
 - Led daily coordination with packager subcontractors, site manager, commissioning- and install teams, and safety personnel to ensure on-time delivery
 - Ensured compliance with electrical and mechanical standards (IEC/local) and alignment with design specifications and redline updates
 - Leading commissioning activities such as load testing, black start scenarios, and PMS/SCADA/BMS integration
 - Leading and coordinating with internal doc. Controller and EHS Manager for documenting inspections, electrical testing, and safety reviews on-site
 - Issue management and reporting
 - Overseeing and leading 3 DC sites, coordinating with the site manager and site supervisors

Commissioning Engineer
PLANT SUPERVISION for Valmet 
 - Commissioning and implementation of instrumentation and control systems, including 4-20mA devices.
 - Configuration of variable frequency drives.
 - Worked with motor control centers (MCCs) and established communication links for various equipment such as burners and their monitoring apparatus.
 - Produced as-built documentation.

Electrical Supervisor & Commissioning Engineer
PLANT SUPERVISION for Billund Aquaculture
 - Supervisor, Automation and electrical installations
 - Electrical Supervisor on a land-based salmon farm in Norway for Billund Aquaculture incl. commissioning and handover to end-customer

Commissioning Engineer
PLANT SUPERVISION for Valmet
 - Commissioning of a Aumund/Samson Eco Hopper at Aalborg Portland Cement Plant

Owner - Electrical, LED lightning, Intelligent Building Control, Automation, Web shop
LaGuTech, HBA-Nordic, LightZENse
2014 - 2022

Senior Project Manager & Automation Engineer
Adding Engineering A/S
2018 - 2019

Automation Specialist & Project Manager
LaGuTech ApS
2015 - 2018

Project Manager and Software Developer
Lyngsoe Systems
2014 - 2015

Project Manager, Team Leader, and Application Engineer
Deif
2011 - 2014

Freelance Consultant - Service, Supervision, Commissioning and Automation Engineer
ManConTec
2011

Programmer Industrial Robots
Bila a/s
2008 - 2011

Engineering Assistant, Automation
Flextronics
2003

Various companies
Various companies in Denmark and abroad
2000 - 2003


Education
======
Electromechanical System Design - Diploma in Engineering
Aalborg University
2004 - 2006

Electrician - Service, Building and Industrial
Tech College
1995 - 2000

