RICARDO
ENGINEERING / MAINTENANCE / LOGISTICS / BUSINESS


Summary
======
Experienced in managing industrial maintenance teams and overseeing maintenance planning, including shutdowns for pellet plants and environmental equipment like electrostatic precipitators and bag filters. Proven track record in project management and engineering, including the development and implementation of engineering projects, coordination of works, supplier management, and strategic contract oversight. Skilled in budgeting, scheduling, scope evaluation, and quality management within multinational environments. Strong background in preparing technical and commercial proposals, equipment sizing, and conducting technical studies for procurement. Additionally, experienced in business development, customer relationship management, and market analysis with a strategic focus on marketing and organizational growth.


Experience
======
Contract Coordinator
Timenow Engineering & Consulting.
2025 - Ongoing
 - Coordinator of interface and field engineering, supporting the management of contracts and changes.
Support the supply and cost team with support and monitoring of the progress of engineering, construction and assembly.

FSE - Field Service Engineer
FL Thrownh
2022 - 2024
 - Technical consultant engineer in the Electrostatic Precipitators and Filters division.
 - Retrofit, Engineering, Technical and Executive Monitoring, training courses and lectures.

Senior Mechanical Engineer
Sereng Engineering Consultantsa.
2022 - 2022
 - Management of the implementation of environmental control systems at the Tubarão Vale ES unit.

Senior Mechanical Engineer
Linesn S.A.
2021 - 2022
 - Development of atmospheric control systems within environmental adjustment and control activities, to meet the Environmental Master Plan, with a focus on Belt Conveyors in the Pelletizing Plants at the Tubarão unit, Vale ES.

Concremat Engineering and Technology
Senior Mechanical Engineer
2021 - 2021
 -  Development and sizing, technical studies and project detailing. Contribute to services related to mechanics and quality control in project management in the Port of Tubarão area.

Senior Mechanical Engineer
MCA Auditoria e Gestão Ltda.
2018 - 2020
 - Management of the portfolio of environmental adjustment and control activities with a focus on Conveyor Belts and Dedusting Systems of the Pelletizing Plants of the Tubarão Unit – Vale.

Engineer Coordinator
USM Industrial e Offshore
2015 - 2016
 - Responsible for the coordination of teams involved in the manufacture, assembly and hydrostatic testing of piping in Petrobras Drillships (FPSO's).

Verification Engineer
RAM Engenharia-Carioca Christiani Nielsen
2015 - 2015
 - Monitoring and verification of the execution premises of the "Goliath Project"
(Goliath Portico) in the construction and installation of the civil bases and gantry rails. Executive control and internal audit of Carioca Engenharia.

Commercial and Engineer in Charge
Delcom Maintenance and Assembly
2014 - 2014
 - Technical and Commercial Responsible for maintenance and assembly activities in dedusting systems.
 - Monitoring of field activities and supervision of operations and logistics.

Representative and Planning Engineer
VitServ Vitória and Maritime Services
2013 - 2013
 - Representative of the Transpetro - TNC contract and responsible for the coordination and planning of the teams of divers performing maintenance and support activities for maneuvers with Monobuoys.

Resident Engineer
Enfil Constructions and Assemblies
2011 - 2012
 - Responsible for the management of the Vitória branch and technical responsible for maintenance activities in scheduled shutdowns in pulp and paper, steel and pelletizing plants. Scope survey, development of technical and commercial proposals.

Mechanical Engineer
Enfil Constructions and Assemblies
2007 - 2011
 - Assembly, manufacture and maintenance of Electrostatic Precipitators, Bag Filters and Environmental Control in the areas of Vale and ArcelorMittal. Scheduled plant shutdowns.

Project Engineer
Flexibrás Flexible Tubes
2009 - 2011
 - Responsible for project management and development. Feasibility analysis, pre-project, supplier development, executive monitoring, commissioning and start-up.

Engineer
VetcoGray Oil & Gas
2006 - 2009
 - Technical performance in the installation of drilling wells with approximately 1760 hours of shipment. Use of subsea equipment (EQS-Sub Petrobras), wellheads, wet Christmas tree and manifolds.

Civil Engineer
Connect Constructions
2005 - 2006
 - Technical performance in civil maintenance services with results of increasing the productivity of maintenance services within the Arcelor Mittal Tubarão area by 250%: monthly service went from 100 to 350 WOs / month.


Education
======
Mechanical engineering
UFES – Univ. Federal do Espírito Santo
2004

Civil Production Engineering
UCL – East Central College
2004

Specialization in Integrated Production Logistics
UFES – Univ. Federal do Espírito Santo
2020 - 1999


Languages
======
English

Português

