SHARASCHANDRA KALMANE
Electrical and Instrumentation Specialist


Summary
======
I am an experienced Electrical and Instrumentation Specialist with over 14 years in the cement and food processing industries. My expertise lies in installation and commissioning of complex equipment across Southeast Asia, the Gulf region, and Africa. Known for my strong problem-solving abilities and cultural adaptability, I excel in high-pressure environments while ensuring quality and safety standards


WORK EXPERIENCE
======
Installation and Commissioning Supervisor
Solid Cement Corporation, Cemex Holdings
 - Installation and commissioning supervision for material handling and transport group for the 280TPH cement mill supplied by Loesche.
 - The commissioning includes Siemens PLC’s for IO checking and trials.
 - Testing and first run of all the related equipment in the section, coordinating with the mechanical department for prioritizing the commissioning schedule Installation and commissioning supervision of FLS crossbar cooler.

Installation and Commissioning Supervisor
Fouta Cement Corporation
 - Commissioning, stabilization, and maintenance of CNBM built 1200 TPD cement grinding unit.  Job responsibilities include inspection of installation by the supplier, IO signal checking, cold commissioning and hot commissioning. Signal checking at Siemens TIA portal and S7-300 and 400 PLC modules.

Site Manager (E&I)
Yemen Company for Flour Mills and Silos
Yemen
 - Worked as a site manager (E&I) for the installation of a flour mill supplied by Buhler AG, Switzerland. As a representative of the end user, responsibilities included design review, coordination, man-power management, progress monitoring, reporting, quality checks, Buhler standard implementation, and material management. Responsible for supervision of all the electrical activities at site as well as pre-commissioning & reconciliation.

Installation and Commissioning Supervisor
National Cement Company
Yemen
 - Installation and commissioning support of Roller Press RPS 18-200/180 and SKS separator. Apart from the initial responsibility, supervised all the installation activities like cable tray work, cable
laying, terminations, and IO signal checks, and commissioning of Louvre Dampers, actuators, metal detectors, magnetic separators, bag filters, belt conveyors, and bucket elevators.

Installation and Commissioning Supervisor
Kukh Tsav Cement
Mongolia
 - Responsibility included installing and commissioning FLSmidth's proprietary plant design software Electrical Plant Data System (EPDS) for the 3000 TPD cement plant representing FLSmidth Denmark.
 - Additionally, carried out pre-commissioning inspection check-ups and certified the installation completion for the Raw Mill Grinding and Circulation Groups as well as Cooler Group equipment within the allocated timeline.

Supervisor
Riyad Cement Company
Saudi Arabia
 - The role was to supervise the electrical and instrumentation installation, certify the installation and commissioning assistance for Roller Press RPZM 20-170/180B and SK separator along with material inspection of electrical items and instruments.
 - Pre-commissioning of associated systems like grease lubrication system, hydraulic system, gear oil lubrication system and SK separators.

Pre-Commissioning Supervisor
Straits Cement
Malaysia
 - During Performance Guarantee Test
(PGT), involved in E&I support, troubleshooting, and power consumption report generation.

Commissioning Process
Dalmia Cement
Belgaum, India
 - Headed the first run, group trial, and load trial of all belt conveyors, bag diverters, damper actuators, vibrating screens, and bag filters of packing plant department right from signal checking with Siemens S7 300 and TIA portals and Simocode for intelligent MCC’s
 - Represented the end user for speeding up the commissioning process in the Cement Mill department. The major equipment handled were KHD's roller press, truck loaders, magnetic separators and metal detectors.

Project Engineer
Edo Cement
Nigeria
 - Successfully filled the role with project engineer for end user BUA International for an FLSmidth supplied
6000 TPD cement plant.
 - Actively assumed administrative responsibilities like expat travels, daily site essentials, and document categorization along with the installation supervision of E&I activities. Material inspection.
(E&I supplies) was also supervised.
 - Involved in pre-commissioning activities, carried out loop checking, individual equipment run as well as group test.

Project Coordinator
Kanbawza Cement
Myanmar
 - Coordinated between the end user, KBZ Industries, and the supplier, LV Technology, for the review of documents and drawings.
 - During the construction phase, supervised the construction activities relating to E&I from material handling to pyroprocess department

Commissioning Supervisor
Walsin Lihwa Corporation
Taiwan
 - As a representative of ABB Taiwan, the main role was to supervise the installation activities related to E&I for an Andritz supplied cold rolling mill.
 - Responsibilities included planning the junction box location, instruments installation, supervision of cable tray work and cable laying.
 - Carried out the pre-commissioning works and actively involved in commissioning activities, individual and group-function tests.

Subcontractor
KJS Cement
India
 - The main responsibility was to supervise all the construction activities relating to E&I in the Raw Mill Hopper and Cement Mill departments. Daily activities included installation of junction boxes, cable laying supervision, cable tray work, attend site meetings, HSE co-ordination, meetings to discuss/propose modification if any during construction. He was also involved in loop checking.


Education
======
B.E. Instrumentation Technology
Visvesvaraya University
08/2006 - 05/2010
Bengaluru, Karnataka, India


Strengths
======
Technical Expertise
Strong knowledge of cement plant equipment and installation practices

Cultural Adaptability
Adaptability to diverse working conditions and cultures

Problem Solver
Excellent problem-solving abilities in high-pressure environments


Languages
======
English

Kannada

Hindi

Spanish


Skills
======
 - Instrumentation
 - PLC
 - WinCC

